# Reflection: Gov | DNA

[Gov | DNA](https://govdna.frontwise.com/#layout/dna/country/0/x/32/y/5/z/8/a/0)

This visualization has won many awards this year for best interactive visualization. This website shows countries and their many factors in many views. The first view, is a series of "bar heat maps" where each bar represents a feature of a country. You can determine what country is what by the circle next to the heat map. The color of the heat map is represented to the proportion of the features value in brightness and hue by geographical location. This data encoding method is very well done and is carried on to other views on the interactive graph. In addition, you can organize the heatmap by ranking, geographical location and GDP. When you click on a country, it will take you to the "DNA view" which is a zoom in on the heat map for that country with other selectable countries in the background. Other views include the  geographic/global view that lays the points on their approximate geographical location, and size represents the the amount correlated to the current selected feature on the X axis. The final view, the data view, show comparisons between two features and overall countries. This visualization deserves its awards for the multi views that cover the aspects of each other's positives and negatives to fully analyze the dataset. This especially holds in the small details of keeping the current selection of the country upon swapping views and labeling it with a border. Even upon hover, the data shown is also represented with 2 bar graphs as a label, as well as the numerical data.
